# Retrieving Data & Data Cleaning

## Retrieving Data

### CSV file
```python
import pandas as pd
filepath = 'data/iris_data.csv'

#import the data
data = pd.read_csv(filepath)

#print a few rows
print(data.iloc[:5])
```

Some useful arguments:

```python
# Different delimiters - tab seperated file (.tsv)
data = pd.read_csv(filepath, sep='\t')

# Different delimiters - space seperated file (.tsv)
data = pd.read_csv(filepath, delim_whitespace=True)

# Dont use first row for column names
data = pd.read_csv(filepath, header=None)

# Specify column name
data = pd.read_csv(filepath, names=['Name1', 'Name2'])

# Custom missing value
data = pd.read_csv(filepath, na_values = ['NA', 99])

```

### JSON file
```python
import pandas as pd
filepath = 'data/iris_data.json'

#import the data
data = pd.read_json(filepath)

#write out
data.to_json('outputfile.json')
```

### SQL Databases

### NoSQL Databases
- Document databases: mongoDB, couchDB
- Key-value stores: RIak, Redis
- Graph databases: Neo4j, HyperGraph
- Wide-column stores: Cassandra, HBase

### APIs and Cloud Data Access

---

## Data Cleaning
Why is Data Cleaning SO mportant?

Decisions and analytics are increasingly driven by data and models.

Key aspects of Machine Learning Workflow depend on cleaned data:

- Observations: An instance of the data (usually a point or row in a dataset)

- Labels: Output variable(s) being predicted

- Algorithms: Computer programs that estimate models based on available data

- Features: Information we have for each observation (variables)

- Model: Hypothesized relationship between observations and data

Messy data can lead to "garbage-in, garbage-out" effect, and unreliable outcomes.
- Duplicate or unnecessary data
- Inconsistent text and typo
- Missing data
- Outliers
- Data source issues
  - Multiple systems
  - Different database type
  - On premise, in cloud
- ... and more

Problems:
- Lack of data
- Too much data
- Bad data

### Handling Missing Values and Outliers

Missing data
- Remove the data: remove the row(s) entirely.
- Impute the data: replace with substituted values. Fill in the missing data with the most common value, the average value, etc.
- Mask the data: create a category for missing values.

Outliers
- How to find
  - Plots:
    - Histogram
    ```python
    # plot a histogram and density plot
    sns.distplot(data, bins=20)
    ```
    - Density Plot
    - Box Plot
    ```python
    # plot a boxplot
    sns.boxplot(data)
    ```

  - Statistics: interquartile range, standard deviation
    ```python
    import numpy as np
    # calculate the interquartile range
    q25, q50, q75 = np.percenttile(data, [25, 50, 75])
    iqr = q75 - q25

    # calculate the min / max limits to be considered an outlier
    min = q25 - 1.5*(iqr)
    max = q75 + 1.5*(iqr)

    print (min, q25, q50, q75, max)

    # identify the points
    [x for x in data['Unemployment'] if x > max]
    ```

  - Residuals: Standardized, Deleted, Studentized
    - what are residuals? That's going to assume that you have a model and it'll be the difference between the actual value and the predicted value given your model, and they are going to represent model failure.
    - The standardized residual is found by dividing the difference of the observed and expected values by the square root of the expected value. The standardized residual can be interpreted as any standard score. The mean of the standardized residual is 0 and the standard deviation is 1.
    - A statistic that provides an effective way of detecting an outlier observation. The deletion residual corresponding to the jth of n observations is calculated by comparing its value with the corresponding fitted value based on the model with the parameters estimated from the remaining (n−1) observations. See regression diagnostics.
    - In statistics, a studentized residual is the quotient resulting from the division of a residual by an estimate of its standard deviation. It is a form of a Student's t-statistic, with the estimate of error varying between points. This is an important technique in the detection of outliers.